Modify Rule S3649: Education Framework (APPSEC-46 & APPSEC-47) (#1109)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S3649/csharp/how-to-fix-it/dapper.adoc

> === How to fix it in Java Standard Edition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== How to fix it in Dapper
```

=== How to fix it in Dapper

include::../../common/fix/code_rationale.adoc[]

[cols="a"]
|===
h| Non-compliant code example
|
[source,csharp]
----

> public class ExampleController : Controller
> {
>     private readonly string connectionString;
> 
>     public IActionResult authenticate(string user, string pass)
>     {
>         using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
>         {
>             var query = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE user = '" + user + "' AND pass = '" + pass + "'";
> 
>             try
>             {
>                 var user = connection.QueryFirst<User>(sql);
>             }
>             catch (InvalidOperationException e)
>             {
>                 Unauthorized();
>             }
>         }
> 
>         return Ok(AUTHENTICATION_SUCCESS);
>     }
> }

Reviewer: This code example has multiple problems:
- Variable name collisions (`user`)
- Use of undefined variables (`sql`)
- `QueryFirst` does not throw (apparently)

```suggestion
public class ExampleController : Controller
{
    private readonly string ConnectionString;

    public IActionResult Authenticate(string user, string pass)
    {
        using (var connection = new SqlConnection(ConnectionString))
        {
            var query = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE user = '" + use + "' AND pass = '" + pass + "'";
            
            var result = connection.QueryFirst<User>(query); // Noncompliant
            if (result == null) {
                Unauthorized();
            }
        }
        return Ok();
    }
}
```

----
h| Compliant solution
|
[source,csharp]
----

> public class ExampleController : Controller
> {
>     private readonly string connectionString;
> 
>     public IActionResult authenticate(string user, string pass)
>     {
>         using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
>         {
> 
>             var query      = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE user = @UserName AND password = @Password";
>             var parameters = new { UserName = user, Password = pass };
> 
>             try
>             {
>                 var user = connection.QueryFirst<User>(sql, parameters);
>             }
>             catch (InvalidOperationException e)
>             {
>                 Unauthorized();
>             }
>         }
> 
>         return Ok(AUTHENTICATION_SUCCESS);
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class ExampleController : Controller
{
    private readonly string ConnectionString;

    public IActionResult Authenticate(string user, string pass)
    {
        using (var connection = new SqlConnection(ConnectionString))
        {
            var query      = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE user = @UserName AND password = @Password";
            var parameters = new { UserName = user, Password = pass };
            
            var result = connection.QueryFirst<User>(query, parameters);
            if (result == null) {
                Unauthorized();
            }
        }
        return Ok();
    }
}
```
